1. rust is aot compilation style, which means its binary can be run without having rust toolchain

2. usually you compile rust programs like this: rustc filename.rs, which ouputs an executable binary

3. rust program always have a main.rs file which runs code first from other files

4. function calls with "!" at the end of the name means you are calling a macro, not a funciton,
   they behave differently from functions

5. rust has a builtin package manger called "cargo" which does a lot of things:
   1. building code
   2. download the libraries your code depends and builds them
5.1 usually you always start a project with cargo: cargo new project_name:
    1. it creates a cargo.toml file
    2. also initializes a .git repo (only if you are not already in one, but you can add anyway)
5.2 cargo toml file is for project settings and dependencies

6. a rust project with cargo usually consists of:
   1. src/ foleder which should rely all your source files
   2. and all other files kile readme/license/config files/anything else not being source files
   
6.1 if you have a project done without cargo you just put your source files inside a src/ folder,
    and create a cargo.toml file with needed settings or just "cargo init" and you will get a cargo.toml
    
6.2 building your project is with "cargo build" at the root directory, which creates a
    1. target/ folder with different kind of information, one of which is debug/project_name binary which,
       is a debug build with debug information(and is usually unoptimized by the compiler),
       you can run it with .target/project_name
    2. cargo.lock file at root dir (only for the first time build) which keeps track of the dependencies,
       versions, this file wont ever be changed by you manually usually
       
6.3 
    1. using "cargo build" and then "./target/debug/project_name" to run it, is tedious, so there is another,
       way by using "cargo run" which builds + runs the program from the target/debug/project_name folder;
    2. "cargo run" wont rebuild your code if it doesnt notice any changes inside your code, it will,
       just run it instead
       
6.4 there is way to check if your project still compiles but doesnt produce a binary, why do you need it?
    because its faster than "cargo build", so you just check if its compiling and continue working,
    the commands is "cargo check"

6.5 when you build for production aka "release" your program, there is a command for this:
    "cargo build --release" which produces a biinary with compiler optimizations which is placed,
    inside target/release folder instead of target/debug;
    this binary is faster than the debug one, but it also means the compilation time will be longer

7. crate - collection of rust source code files, usually it will be a binary which contains features,
           that can be used by other programs but not be executed on its own (library basically)

7.1 usually, you will include a crate inside your Cargo.toml [dependencies] block so you can use it,
    inside your project: 
    [dependencies]
    rand = "0.8.5"    crate_name = "version"
    1. (version is based on semverg.org semantic),
       "0.8.5" is shorthand for "^0.8.5" which means at least 0.8.5 but below 0.9.0
    2. after you include a dependency:
       1. cargo fetches a copy from the registry (a copy from Crates.io)
       2. then it checks the dependencies that are listed by you but are not downloaded yet and download them,
          it also downloads the dependencies of the crates as well
       3. after downloading it compiles crates and dependencies for crates 
       4. then it compiles the project itself with the new dependencies
       5. any subsequent builds will reuse the downloaded and compiled crate only if your code also changes

7.2 another imiportant thing is on first "cargo build" it creates a Cargo.lock which hass some,
    information but the important one is that it has the exact versions of your dependencies specified,
    so that if you have a version "0.8.5" which means at least "0.8.5" but below "0.9.0" and then,
    you decide to build without a Cargo.lock, it will try to download "0.8.6" if its available,
    but because of Cargo.lock it wont, becaue Cargo.lock fixates the dependency version and when,
    you do a build and have a Cargo.lock file, it will fetch that versions without breaking your,
    project.
       
7.3 also, if you want to update your dependencies, there is a command "cargo update" which ignores,
    Cargo.lock dependencies versions but still respects the versioning semantic, so if there are updates,
    between "0.8.5" and "0.9.0" then it will update, but if there is a version past "0.9.0" it wont update,
    so you would need to change the Cargo.toml dependencie version in order for "cargo update"

8. rust provided a way to locally see documentation of your dependencies, traits, code, .etc with,
   a command "cargo doc --open" which opens the documentation locally inside a browser
