what causes sleep ?
1. light (presence -> awake) + dark (absence of light -> asleep) [intensitity, color, amount, .etc]
2. temperature (higher -> more discomfort, body heats up, you are tulburate. lower -> less energy to maintain, easier to stop the brain)
3. food (what, when, amount)
4. exercises (cardio, weight, yogo, .etc -> makes body more stressed so more awaked)
5. caffeine (triggers more alert in the body on a hormone level)
6. suppliments
7. digital tools (pc, phones, youtube videos, whatever)

when you wake up:
        general info:
	    1. body temperature is increasing (main reason people actually wake up) which triggers increase in [cortisol]
	    2. napping through day should be until 5 pm and not more than 90 minutes (better to not nap at all)
	    3. exercising afternoon will likely dealy your circadian clocks so its better to do it after waking up or dont make it near the time you
 	       usually go to sleep, because your body will increase the temperature after exercising and your sleep will be delayed, try to avoid
               exercising afternoon or near sleep time.
	    4. sunlight afternoon/evening is also beneficial
	    5. after sunlight is done (after evening), aritifical lights must often be dimmed, since sun is gone your body needs to adjust this.
	       1. candle/moonlight is also a very great source of light to not disrupt your ability to go to sleep.
	       2. bright lights above the head is the worst (usually all have them).
	       3. best artificial lights are below head levels and dimmed ones for sleep schedule.
	       all of these rules apply from 10 pm to 4 am (depending when you go sleep)
	    6. evening sunset benefits and helps sleep schedule
            7. environment temperature must be pretty cool, this helps body going into sleep mode since body temperature is the main cause of waking up.
	       1. surface of hands/face, bottom of foot can take out temperature through some glands which helps, this will help if your body temp is hight,
		  but if the room itself is high temp it wont help.
	    8. taking a hot/warm bath and getting out of it will actually decrease body temperature which can help going to sleep.
	    9. magnesium/melatonin/inositol/glycine supplements can help with sleep schedule. (need a doctor to consult)
            10. eye mask can help to block light BUT it blocks the glands around it and makes you warm so it can wake you up (dont use it better)
	    11. earplugs can be beneficial but you must self analyze yourself and decide if its worth it.
	    12. raising ankles with a pillow or raising the lower part of bed by some degrees is beneficial for sleep (something relate to fluids of brain) but
		if you have acid reflux it can be bothering, so take it in account.
	    13. sleeping more on weekend is allowed but not more than 1 hour to not ruin sleep schedule.
	    14. caffeine disrupts sleep but it also disrupts daytime compensatory sleep so it means if you slept less than you need, caffeine must not be
	        taken afternoon.
	    15. red light can help doing some activity without spyking cortisol and sleep schedule.

	at morning / after sunlight:
	    1. between 5-60 minutes and look outside at light (better for sunlight, room light is also possible(worse)).
	       after 60 minutes, the sunlight affects worse your body for cortisol, so try to look outside in first 5-60 minutes waking up.
	       you must look at sun/near it but not through windows(home,car, .etc), the best is to go outside though.
	    2. you need to increase body temperature, some ways are:
	       1. getting into cold water (shower, ice bath, whatever works for you 1-3 minutes) so it spikes adrenaline+dopamine and increase core body                              temperature, also 1-3 minutes of cold water increase the temperature after you get out of it and not drops it but if you stay longer,
                  then your core body temperature will actually drop.
	    3. exercises (best is after waking up, or 3,11 hours after waking up) it must not be necessary full workout
	    4. you can drink caffeine in the morning(90-120 after waking up, it must be the last restort after sunlight/cold water/execises), do not take caffeine
               afternoon/night, avoid it at all cost.
    	    5. you can eat (increases metabolism and heats up body), but it must not be a very big meal (you feel sleepy then, but if you exercise after it,
               you can eat a big meal) because eating after the morning is also setting a schedule for your brain to follow (but its not mandatory to eat)

	before sunlight in the morning:
	    1. turn on aritifical lights (room), once sun rise you must go and look outside, (sunlight cannot be replaced by aritificial lights but there are
               lights that could make an alternative like: ring lights, led tablets, .etc)
	
	at night / middle of night:
	    1. digital screens(pc, phone, .etc) can spike cortisol which will mess up your ability to fall asleep right after.


dictionary:

cortisol - stress hormone basically
           1. it enhances immune system
	   2. it increases metabolism
	   3. increase of focus mentally
	   4. ability to move physically your body
           note: 
		1. cortisol is not bad, but it must in peak only in the morning
                   